# Pytest

## What Is Pytest?

Pytest is a framework that helps you write unit and integration tests for your code. At its core, it’s pretty simple. However, that simplicity allows the pytest framework to be scaled very easily to accurately test large projects a well as lend itself to a test-driven development (TDD) approach to writing code. 
Some specific: 

- Any files following the conventions test_*.py or *_test.py are automatically discovered by pytest.
- Any functions with test prefixed are automatically discovered.
- Fixtures can be used to pass generated arguments to your tests.


### Adding Fixtures

Fixtures are functions that are run before tests and are used to pass arguments into test functions.

```python
# filename: mac_address.py
def normalize_mac_address(non_normalized_mac_address):
    if mac.count(".") == 2:
        mac = f"{mac[0:2]}:{mac[2:4]}:{mac[5:7]}:{mac[7:9]}:{mac[10:12]}:{mac[12:14]}"
    return mac

```


```python

# filename: test_mac_address.py 
import pytest
from mac_address import normalize_mac_address

def test_normalize_mac_address(non_normalized_mac_address, expected_mac_address):
    normalized_mac_address = normalize_mac_address(non_normalied_mac_address)
    assert normalized_mac_address == expected_mac_address

@pytest.fixture
def non_normalized_mac_address():
    #return "aabb.ccdd.eeff"
    return "aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff"

@pytest.fixture
def expected_mac_address():
    return "aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff"

```


### Test discovery

Given no arguments, pytest looks at your current directory and all subdirectories for test files and runs the test code it finds. If you give pytest a filename, a directory name, or a list of those, it looks there instead of the current directory

Here’s a brief overview of the naming conventions to keep your test code discoverable by pytest:
    • Test files should be named test_<something>.py or <something>_test.py. 
    • Test methods and functions should be named test_<something>. 
    • Test classes should be named Test<Something>.


### Test Outcomes

- PASSED (.)—The test ran successfully.
- FAILED (F)—The test did not run successfully.
- SKIPPED (s)—The test was skipped. You can tell pytest to skip a test by using either the @pytest.mark.skip() or @pytest.mark.skipif() decorators
- XFAIL (x)—The test was not supposed to pass, and it ran and failed.
- XPASS (X)—The test was marked with xfail, but it ran and passed.
- ERROR (E)—An exception happened either during the execution of a fixture or hook function, and not during the execution of a test function


- Resource Pytest: 
  - https://blog.networktocode.com/post/pytest-in-the-networking-world/
  - https://blog.networktocode.com/post/pytest-in-the-netwoking-world-part-2/
  - https://blog.networktocode.com/post/pytest-in-the-netwoking-world-part-3/

